Name: Straight Shot

Faction: Autobot

Gender: Female

Alt form: Cross Bow and traditional Bow, tripple changer.

Appearence: Short in stature, slender, with shark gray and silver armor, also with sapphire blue optics which are viberant and full of life.  She bares a black helmet, gauntletts and boots, with a bit of a heel on them.

Weapons: Plasma tipped arrows, forearm dart launchers and long range arrow chambers.

Areas of Expertise: Archery, ninjabot tactics, and acrobatics.

Strength: 3

Speed: 8

Intelligence: 8

Skill: 9

Rank: 4

Courage: 8

Brief History: Being one of the youngest to join the Autobot faction, Straight Shot was never really sure where she belonged among them.  Her small stature yet spunky and vibrant personality helped her to grab the curiosity of Tucson when he too was merely a rookie in training.  As it turned out they seemed to have very much in common as fighters yet, Tucson being as shy as he was in his younger years, Straight Shot knew that it would be wrong to just put her femme bot charm over him, and slowly builds up a brother sister relationship with him.  This relationship stays the same throughout their training and into their ranks as Autobots.  

Being the thoughtful type, Straight Shot could also see that Tucson was also a master of archery, via the cross bow predominantly and the traditional bow and arrow.  His skills inspire her to lend herself to his needs as an archer, and before long, the two of them find themselves working in tandem with each other, hitting their targets with the greatest of precision.  Even when separate from each other, Straight Shot continues to blossom with her archery skills, making her also a very formidable fighter, proving that big things can come in small packages.  Yet like Tucson she too had suffered greatly in the same battle he had fought, which also renders her unconscious.  She remains in stasis for a more extended amount of time, before waking up in the Ark where she had been brought back, to sleep off her injuries.

Personality: Extremely perky, spunky, Personable, brasin, short tempered and lively.

