Name: Tucson

Faction: Autobot

Alt Mode: 2005 Hyundai Tucson. *Compact SUV.*

Description: In both Robot mode and Alt mode: Silver paint job with black trim around front,back and side bumpers.  When transformed Tucson appears a bit attractive for an Autobot with more beveled features rather than boxy.  Optics are crystal clear blue, as with all Autobots.  Helmet, gauntletts and boots are black to match the black trim when in alt mode, height wise, mid sized, with a well built body frame, nothing to husky, nor too gaunt.  

Strength: 7

Speed: 4

Rank: 6

Courage: 9

Skill: 8

Intelligence: 7

Handicap: 10

Primary weapon: Cross bow, with plasma tipped arrows. *Will implement traditional arrows as well*

Secondary weapon: Traditional bow with same plasma tipped arrows. *same as above.*

Skills: Archery involving cross bow and traditional bow and arrows, weaponsmith, unarmed combat and tracking specialist, and restoration artisan.

Personality: Personable most of the time, can be critical on occasion.  Reliable, loyal to his faction, occasionally will fall into a dark mood, yet is able to be reasonable during one of his bad tempered episodes.  He tends to be shy around femme bots, in fear that he may say something to them he'll regret later, but will slowly open up to them once he gets to know them.  

Brief History: There was never a time when Tucson would refuse to help his fellow Autobots against the forces of their enemies, and would always roll into battle with a willingness to help his comrades to defeat all odds.  On one particular confrontation with Decepticon forces, things began to fall severely out of hand, and it appeared that his comrades would not survive the Decepticon Wrath.  Out of despiration to save his fellow Autobots from being heavilly hit, Tuscon steps beyond his skill level to try and divert enemy fire away from them and direct it more toward himself.  His strategy works, yet it comes with a consequence.

Unlike the Autobot speedsters, Tucson can go no faster than 145 MPH. To beat a jet in the sky would take twice the speed.  Against all odds, Tucson risks his own life and diverts enemy fire his way, only to be struck from behind and rendered off line before he could identify the shooter.  

Just as it seems that all hope is lost for Tucson, his surprisingly resilliant system as modest as it is, manages to bring him back online, only to find his optical sensors are damaged to the point where he is rendered sightless.  A blow like this would surely depress a young Autobot.  For a while it had great emotional impact on Tucson until he realized that with the loss of one sense, others become stronger and he learns to live and work with his disability.

Tucson's determination, compassion for others, courage, and extreme loyalty to his fellow Autobots, closely follows the values and beliefs of the former Autobot leader, Optimus Prime.  He had once met Optimus Prime and gotten to know him for a brief time, un be known to him that he is related to the former Autobot Leader.  His similarities to Optimus gradually emerge through his actions, his beliefs and values as he continues to do what Optimus would have done in tight situations.  Although he has much to learn, Tucson has adopted many of Optimus Prime's most essential values yet, he knows deep down that his strength will never match those of his former Autobot leader, but it doesn't hurt to carry on his values, no matter what size and how strong you are. 

Anything Else: Tucson is fitted with an ecolocation device which sends off sonar signals to bounce radio waves off of objects so that he can navigate around them.  The device is attatched to his helmet.  

Also:  Un be known to him, Tucson holds a gift of great energy. An energy which can not be seen, nor used openly.  A gift of energy which only comes from one of the universes' most powerful forces, the gift of Love and Compassion.  The energy works only in good intentions yet can be felt by those who crave power.  It is an energy of the heart, deep inside the spark of someone who will go to any lengths to protect what is most precious to him.  His comrades, his friends, and mostly his leader who he serves with the utmost of loyalty.  

Note: This special energy is not a weapon of destruction, it's a power of healing, hope and most of all, love.

