Faction:  Decepticon
Name: Maxima
Funtion: Reconniasance/Warrior
Quote:  "I can face the most dangerous challenge, so long as I believe I can master it…. And I usually do!"

Strength: 7
Endurance: 9
Agility: 6
Intelligence: 8
Courage: 9
Charisma: 7
Sharpshooting:7 
Hand-to-Hand: 7 
Tech Skill: 6 
Rank: >I leave that up to Megatron or whoever is in charge<
Velocity: 120 mph in Robot mode; max speeds over 2,000 mph with an altitude as high a 80,000 feet in jet mode
Size 1: In robot mode; 38.5 feet
Size 2: In Cybertronian Jet mode: wingspan 55 feet ; length 107. 5 feet; height 18.6 feet       
FPr: 7-8 >depends<

Bio: Intelligent, ruthless, cunning, alert, nearly emotionless & very little compassion; she's like the calm just before a deadly storm, waiting for that perfect moment to strike. Relishing in any Autobot's demise that may unluckily cross her path. Loyal only to those she deems worthy and trusting no one. Anyone treating her as weak & worthless is usually a fatal mistake. Always seeking what information she could to use for herself or for the Decepticon cause. Her focus was upon whatever task was at hand. She desires to become one of Megatron's most trusted & favorite elite warriors. She would try to prove herself that she can do anything within her means. Even lay down her life for Megatron. She has a strong ideal of a Warrior's code of conduct. She won't break it, but abide by it and sometimes bend the rules. Mercy is not usually an option unless the victim is needed and necessary for something useful. Impulsive sometimes only because something like a plan is taking form. Sometimes her conduct & ideals will cloud her judgement. But she never makes the same mistake twice! 

Weapons: In alt mode; Armed with a heat seeking, air-to-air 
missiles & laser guided missiles. Infrared & radar sensors. Stealth craft.
In robot mode; has twin plasma cannons mounted on the forearms & twin 
mounted shoulder laser cannons. Her exo-cover is composed of a highly 
supremely tough metal alloy. Her Optic sensors provides a 2 miles radius 
monitoring system; enhanced with a Infrared scanner that can detect movement &
heat through a wall within 100 yards.  

Special Skills/Other abilities: Flight, Radar, Stealth, Stealth radar, Enhanced senses

Notes: Only weaknesses is her need of constant energon/fuel. Sometimes a lack of trust shadows her judgement. Loyalty to Megatron is both a plus and a weakness which can be used against her.


Background history: 
10 million years ago, Maxima was constructed along with Elantra, Sentra, Spectra, Altima, Beretta, Vitara, Jetta, Solara & Sienna. Assigned & programmed to be an assistant for a government official, Gamma Vipian.  Gamma Vipian was one of the Decepticon Military advisors for the planetary defenses. Over the time period of a million years, Maxima had come to know nearly everything in her line of work as well as a majority of what was going on around the planet. Her employer was her mentor now, seeing potential in her as a possible government official with the planetary defenses & Decepticon faction. She was one of 3 aides to Gamma Vipian. Terra Max & Solaris were the other 2 aides of Gamma Vipian. Solaris was 4 million years older than Maxima & Terra Max. Terra Max was eager & arrogant, often testing Maxima. Solaris was more like a best friend to her. Maxima wanted to know everything & humbly did as Gamma asked of her. She felt that she was more a Decepticon than Terra Max. She felt it in her circuits. 
Often she would go to the Hall of Records where a Cybertronian historian named CAT would assist her in many issues of historical or technological nature. Whatever she found, usually was helpful to Gamma or the Cybertronian Defense Corps.
During this time of the Golden Age, a Cybertronian named Megatron was coming into the spot light. Maxima had first seen Megatron at the gladiatorial matches of the underground and was highly intregued with the warrior. Over time, she'd seen him either with meetings with Gamma or flying around on a number of occassion; but not officially meeting Megatron when on occassion Gamma Vipian would meet up with him at the Gladitorial Matches. When she finally was introduced to Megatron officially, he was new to the Decepticon army and commanded the Decepticon Army that was newly forming. She was highly impressed with the new Decepticon General. His intellect & cunning was what interested her. Soon, reports of attacks upon fuel stockpiles & reserves began to come in. Rare & few at first, then the reports started to increase. Megatron then began his attacks upon Cybertron with his Decepticon army, stealing the fuel & conquering cities. Using cruel means to swell his ranks, such as with the infamous Robo-smasher, Megatron began to slowly sweep across the planet. Conquering city after city; destroying anything or anyone that stood in his path.
With the Decepticons attacking, Alpha Trion begain reconstructs of new warriors to fight the Decepticons. Maxima was with her mentor & other Decepticon officials who met up with Alpha Trion & Autobot dignitaries. Her interest in these new military robots was increasing. Alpha Trion spotted this in Maxima. 
During this meeting, it soon enough went sour as assasinations were attempted. Maxima's mentor was one that was heavily damaged; his laser core as well as nearly 85% of his body was destroyed. Maxima was helpless in saving her mentor. She watched the terror unfold as Solaris was gunned down whilst attempting to take Gamma to safety after being hit. Terra Max slowed her down as he tried to eliminate her.  Megatron soon enough arrived with reenforcements for the Decepticon Elders, but was too late to save Gamma Vipian, in which Maxima learned soon enough was one of Megatron's creators. Maxima filled with hatred. It was a young hot shot Autobot aide that terminated her mentor. Terra Max was soon enough taken out as well.
Maxima tried to continue as her role, to fill in as a diginitary in Gamma's place. But soon found that she was not needed as the war progressed. She did what she could to gather the attention of Megatron & his senior commanders. Shockwave always being the one in her way. She continued to rely upon CAT with continuous information of any sort. Whatever information she had, she could eventually use it. 
Battle after battle continued to ravage the planet. Megatron advanced, taking city after city.
Maxima was with CAT discussing an issue when their building was caught in the middle of an intense battle. The building sustained major damage. Parts of it exploded as the rest of it collapsed. CAT was damaged & terminated. Maxima was later found severely damaged, but still functional. Found by an Autobot, she was repaired. Her time with the Autobots were short lived, as she was Decepticon & not an Autobot. Then, she disappeared from the Cybertronian scene. 
Over the next couple million years, as Cybertron's Golden Age was ending, she sneaked around the underbelly & lower world areas of Cybertron; to live & to survive. She rarely went out into the view of others, be they Autobot or Decepticon. For if spotted by Autobots, she'd be terminated or captured. If it were the Decepticons, she hadn't a clue what may happen for one such as her, perhaps deemed a traitor for being in the Autobot's grasp for a time.
She had the knowledge & clearance from being an aide once. This helped her survival some as Cybertron was turning into a wasteland of tarnished metal & littered with junk. Maxima never had the ability to transform. Where ever she could find Energon, she took it so she could survive.
However, one attempt to get Energon failed. During one break in into a Decepticon supply store, where Energon was, she stole a cube & soon engaged with Shockwave & his goons. Outnumbered & out gunned, she escaped, but not without being hunted down. Soon enough, the cube in her hands was shot & exploded. Causing her some damage. She lay there, as part of her laser core was damaged, where both emotions & memory was stored, causing her memories to nearly erase as the surge of energy from the potent Energon cube exploded. Shockwave arrived as the sentinels surrounded the smoldering form of the fembot. Megatron soon enough arrived with Soundwave. He belayed the order to disentigrate the fembot. Remembering her as being one of the officials, an aide to Gamma Vipian. She knew Cybertron & knew it well. Well enough he could use her. And he would. Maxima was repaired with potent weapons & re-assigned to hunt down the Autobot fembots & destroy them. Maxima did her job well. She reported in often or after a kill. Soon enough, the fembots became few.
At this time, the energy sources of Cybertron were nearly gone. The Autobots were close to extinction. With a space cruiser, a majority of the Autobots left Cybertron in search for new energy sources. Megatron & the Decepticons gave chase. Maxima had to stay behind on Cybertron. She watched as her leader blasted off. Not hearing from her leader for some time, she continued to do her job out of anger; anger that she lost her Leader.
A million years after Megatron & the Decepticons left Cybertron, Maxima was in a standoff with Elita-1. Maxima was heavily damaged & fell into the underbelly of Cybertron. Staying in stasis lock for over 2 million years. Soon enough she came out of her stasis lock after powering up & very slow internal repairs after some bot found her and helped to restore her. For the next million years, her data processor was unable to recall much about who she was. She survived now by stealing Energon & surviving in the underbelly of Cybertron. Her recall & memories in her central processor was recovered & returning to her. She awaited the day when she would return to the Decepticon ranks. Only one could allow that - Megatron!
Time and time again, Maxima found herself in stasis lock after some event. Lost to many, sometimes some would consider her legendary and mysterious. Disappearing to no one knows where. Then she'd return mysteriously or was discovered and revived. Usually her return heralded something horrific and terrible in the near future. 
Maxima's loyalty to Megatron is not a secret. Several in the Autobot ranks know darn well her devotion to the Decepticon Leader. She'd lay down her existance for him. Why she remained so devoted to Megatron, one never knows exactly. But she's been known to be just as vicious, cold, cruel, and cunning as he. Nothing in the universe could ever pry her loyalty away from Megatron. 
 
Having come to the planet of the Beast Transformers, caught up in their war and her form molded into a beast, flesh and metal combined, she loathed every moment she was within that form. How inferior she felt in her beast machines form. Siding with the Predacons to berid of their enemies the Maximals. For a brief time, she became Lover to Hydras who claimed he was a decendent of Megatron, the one she served for millions of years. But her devotion to the Decepticon ways and her loathing of her form, caused her to isolate herself from the Predacons whom she deemed as inferior, especially to Decepticons and the Decepticon standard. Soon enough, she disappeared while on a scouting for her enemies. 
After a long time lost, all that was left of her was her spark/laser-core, which was recently discovered by MegatronX, who claimed to be the revived Megatron.
 


>>>Pictures of Maxima in Photos<<<
