Name:  Megatron X, Megatron Revived

Alligence:  Neo Decepticon

Gender:  male

Age:  yet to be determined

Alt. mode:  heavily armored gunship

Weapons:  Fusion powered mega particle Focus cannon, four head mounted beam 

vulcan, two shoulder mounted Black Beam cannons, Sword of Power, Decepticon 

Matrix of Leadership.
 
Str:  10
Int:  9
Spd:  8
End:  9
Crg:  10
Frp:  10
Skl:  7
Rnk:  3
 
History:
Megatron.  A name that was synominous with fear and destruction.  Now, that 

spark has been revived, and healed of the gross injustice that was dealt to it 

so long ago.  Years before the Great War, a Quinttesson made a last ditch 

effort to sew the seed of destruction.  Said Quinttesson found the construction 

worker Megatronics.  Megatronics lived alone with his brother, Neutronics, and 

adoptive sister Organics.  One night the Quinttesson assaulted and forever 

altered the protective older brother Megatronics and turned him into Megatron, 

Tyrant and Leader of the Decepticons.  Now, centuries after the Great Wars, on 

a colonized planet, Megatron is revived!  Though the scientists were forbidden 

to return to Cybertron, they were able connect to the mega computer Vector 

Sigma and revive him.  Upon removing the Quinttesson influance, he was found to 

have little memory of his horrid deeds.  In a modified, cloned body, he now 

lives to rectify his mis deeds and reunite with his long lost family.
 


Megatron Revived is armed with a heavily modified fusion cannon.  It fuses and 

focuses high energy anti matter into a powerful blast.  The sides house fourty 

Stun micro missiles, which fire in a spread to stun a group of opponents or 

rioters.  The Black Beam cannons fire a blast of Null energy to render weak 

opponents unconscious and stronger ones to a sluggish state.  The head vulcans 

are low yeild, rapid fire Decepticon energy weapons.  The large Sword of Power 

is a heat blade.  The alloys are able to with stand extreme high tempatures, 

thus turning it into a weapon that can cut almost anything, leaving carterized 

wounds.  On his left arm is a shield.  When not in use, the shield folds in 

half and rests on the under side of his forearm, running length wise.  When 

deployed, it can double as a two part claw, for use in melee combat.  The 

Decepticon Matrix of Leadership, sometimes called the Matrix of Conquest, is 

housed inside Megatron Revived's chest, over his armored spark chamber.  He 

found will on a mission to quell a rebellion on a prison colony, which was 

previously visited by an older foe, Liege Maximo.  Liege had long since left, 

but Megatron took the Matrix, and now, as Chief of Planetary Security on 

Sol'ludnium Prime, uses the information and the link to Vector Sigma to aide 

his fellow Cybertronians.
 
Megatron Revived hears of his siblings and goes to find them.  He will arrive 

with only his weapons, and a few weapon designs.  Even with his new body and 

younger face, his presense will cause much tension with the Autobots, Maximals, 

Predacons, and Unicron.