Name:  Organics
Gender:  female
Age:  Can't, or won't, tell.
Alligence:  Autobot
Function:  Bounty Hunter
Alt. Form:  High performance space combat fighter.
Weapons:  Chaos Breaker- Multi function, multi form, sword; melee weapon, rifle, photon grenade launcher, power cannon.   4x Lancer energy missile launchers, two in each shoulder.  In vehical mode, has energy vulcan cannons, forward firing.  Has power absorbtion.
 
Strength:  8
Intellagence:  7
Speed:  9
Endurance:  6
Courage:  9
Firepower:  10
Skill:  7
Rank:  0
 
History:  Organics is the Autobot that Malice/Neutronics is searching for.  She came to know him when he came to Cybertron right after Unicron was defeated.  They quickly took a liking to each other and were soon inseperable.  They went everywhere together; to earth, back to Cybertron, to the outpost Neutronics started at, and after Galvatron was defeated, dropped out of the military and made a permanent home on Neutronics' base.  They lived together for years, but one day, Organics was kidnapped, and this sent Neutronics into the downward spiral that turned him into Malice.  Organics was kidnapped by some Maximal rebals, but escaped, and found herself at the front door of Shockwave, the one who helped give Malice his powers.  He gave Organics the power absorbtion, but could not upgrade her fuel efficentcy.  She also became a bounty hunter, also searching for her lost lover.
 
Abilities:  Organics has the ability to absorb energy, but cannot use it to suppliment her main power source.  She can use that energy to suppliment her space drive and her variable form sword.  The sword contains a self contained micro reactor, that will recharge after it is used, but takes a little time to recharge fully.  Organics usually uses this absorbtion power to continuously use her Chaos Breaker.  SHe is capibly of space flight, but only when energy is handy.  She can fly like a Decepticon, fights diry, and doesn't back down from a challenge.  She longes to be with Neutronics, really bad.

