Many Millions of years ago

A humanoid scientist named Primacron creates Unicron – with the intent of 
destroying the Universe – Unicron goes on a rampage ("Call of the Primitives" 
shows us the creator of Unicron who is still alive and creates an even more 
powerful engine of destruction in the wake of Unicron's "death" in the year 
2005 – Other than that, very little of Unicron's origin and purpose are given 
in the context of the TV series)

12 Million Years ago 

(In "Forever is a Long Time Coming"-which occurs 11 million years ago- Beta 
mentions that the Transformers have been slaves under the Quintessons for one 
Million Years – meaning that one million years prior to that episode is when 
the Quints first created the slave robots)

The Quintessons, a race of organic/cybernetic beings rule the known universe. 
They possess a phenomenal level of scientific knowledge and engineering 
capabilities - their greatest achievements being in the field of robotics.

Most of the work necessary to sustain Quintesson society is performed by their 
servant robots. Two main types of robot are manufactured, the consumer-goods 
robots and the military-hardware robots. The consumer-goods robots were meant 
to perform construction, maintenance, as well as clerical and other menial day 
to day tasks. The military-hardware robots were used for defence as well as for 
missions of conquest and terrorism. Each robot is imprinted with a slave brand. 
(A red face-like symbol for the consumer-goods and a purple one for the 
military-hardware) 

The Quints become lazy and decadent. 

The Quintessons construct a mega-computer known as Vector Sigma. Its purpose is 
to program robots with the ability to think and act independently – allowing 
them to function with minimal supervision. The Quintessons later build and 
artificial planetoid called Cybertron (around an organic core planet) to mass 
produce the robots and sell them to other races.

(Vector Sigma was constructed before Cybertron was constructed – In "The Key to 
Vector Sigma Part I and II" Vector Sigma twice states that 'before Cybertron 
was, I was!' " )

But Vector Sigma had performed its function too well – the robots slowly 
develop into sentient machines. A growing number of them become resentful of 
their lot in life. 

The Quintessons also build gigantic "Guardian" robots as their last line of 
defence against enemy attack or a slave revolt. The Quintessons primary 
headquarters are located in "Hive City"

11 Million years ago (This date is identified in "Forever is a Long Time 
Coming")

The 1st Cybertronian War:

A3 (aka Alpha Trion), one of the first generation products of Vector Sigma, 
leads a rebellion against the Quintesson overlords. He also utilizes a special 
device of his own design (hidden in the metal plate bearing his slave-brand) to 
deactivate the guardian robots. This severely hampers the Quintessons' ability 
to defend themselves. 

(Also note that Blaster, Blurr, Wreck-Gar, Rewind and Ramhorn are present due 
to a time travel incident)

The slave robots mount a massive attack against their masters. The Quintessons 
flee the planet and the robots are left to govern themselves. The Quints 
construct another planetoid which they name Quintessa. There they build new 
robotic slaves called Sharkticons. The Sharkticons possess a bare minimum of 
mental ability and are not capable of independent action. The Quints designed 
them this way so they would not be subject to another rebellion. The 
Quintessons are not seen or heard from for many millions of years…

The 2nd Cybertronian War: (The date of this war is unclear – but we can assume 
it was not long after the 1st Cybertronian War)

The military-hardware robots, unable to adapt to civilian life, begin a 
campaign to conquer Cybertron and destroy the consumer-goods robots. The 
military robots re-name themselves "Decepticons". The consumer-goods robots are 
forced to fight back or be destroyed – they rename themselves "Autobots" and 
adapt themselves for war.

This war continues for millions of years… control of the planet constantly 
shifts between Autobot and Decepticon. Many Autobot and Decepticon leaders rise 
and fall.

It is around this time that the Autobot Matrix of Leadership is created (or 
perhaps discovered??). Each Autobot leader who receives it adds the 
title "Prime" to their name. The matrix stores the memories and experiences 
gained by each Autobot leader who carries it – meaning each new leader has 
access to the accumulated wisdom of every other leader who possessed it before 
him. 

Alpha Trion creates transformation technology. The Autobots gain upper hand but 
the Decepticons also learn to transform and the war continues.

Alpha Trion receives the Matrix – but does not integrate it into his system.

A truce is called – 2nd Cybertronian war ends and a long period of peace 
follows… This is commonly referred to as Cyberton's "Golden Age". The Guardian 
Robots are now commonly used as a peacekeeping force – to insure that another 
Cybertronian War does not erupt (One such robot is Omega Supreme)

Approximately 9,100,000 years ago (Several events that occur shortly before or 
concurrent with the start of the 3rd Cybertronian War are recounted in "War 
Dawn", "Fire in the Sky", "The Secret of Omega Supreme")

Starscream and Skyfire, a pair of Scientists, explore the planet Earth, which 
was in an ice-age at the time. Skyfire crash lands and is buried under tons of 
ice. Starscream searches for his friend but is unable to locate him.

Crystal city is built by the Constructicons – who were neutral during the 
previous Cybertronian War.

Crystal city is placed under the protection of Omega Supreme (one of the famed 
Guardian Robots). The Constructicons and Omega Supreme become friends.

9,000,000 years ago (Date is clearly identified in "War Dawn")

A new generation of Transformers are created with the ability to fly in 
humanoid mode using anti-gravity. One of these famed robots is named Megatron 
who was built using the military-hardware (aka Decepticon) Template. These new 
robots are the handiwork of the Constructicons. Megatron is given life by 
Vector Sigma (and for an unknown reason Megatron is ingrained with a strong 
desire for conquest and evil).

Later, unconfirmed stories abound that these new robots have been raiding 
nearby factories. But most people dismiss them as rumours.

A young factory worker named Orion Pax is mortally wounded by Megatron. But 
Orion is rebuilt by A3 (aka Alpha Trion) into Optimus Prime. Optimus receives 
the Autobot Matrix of Leadership from Alpha Trion at this time. (Note that the 
Aerialbots were also present at this time due to a time-travel incident). Ariel 
(Orion's girlfriend) is rebuilt as Elita One.

The 3rd Cybertronian War begins.

Megatron corrupts the Constructicons to evil using his robo-smasher device. 
Megatron destroys Crystal City when Omega Supreme is tricked into leaving it 
undefended. Megatron also attempts to corrupt Omega, but only succeeds in 
draining his emotions. The Constructicons battle Omega in their new combined 
form, Devastator. 

Starscream quickly swears allegiance to the Decepticons – finding the life of a 
soldier far more exciting than that of a scientist.

Several Decepticons go renegade – they are captured and their personality 
components are removed and are placed in a detention block. These particular 
renegades will later be rebuilt into the Combaticons. (Recounted 
in "Starscream's Brigade")

4,000,000 years ago (Date given in "More than Meets the Eye")

The 3rd Cybertronian War has almost totally drained the planet of its once rich 
sources of energy. Optimus Prime and a select team of Autobots leave the planet 
in search of alternate sources of energy. The Ark (the Autobot space cruiser ) 
leaves Cybertron on its maiden voyage. During the launch, an explosion occurs. 
Optimus Prime and Elita 1 are separated, with Optimus believing that Elita has 
been killed.

Megatron leaves Shockwave in charge of Cybertron before deciding to pursue the 
Autobots in his own space cruiser. A battle in space ensues as the Decepticons 
board the Autobot ship. The Ark becomes caught in the gravity of a nearby 
planet (Prehistoric Earth) and crashes in a geographic area that will later be 
known as Oregon. The now un-manned Decepticon ship (containing the "Heart of 
Cybertron" device) crashes elsewhere on the planet. All the Transformers on 
board the Ark are severely damaged and deactivate.

Elita 1 and the other female Autobots begin a guerrilla war against Shockwave 
who has already entrenched himself as governor of Cybertron.

2 or 3 million years ago (Wild guess) insert the events from Beast wars. (See far below)

Earth Year 543 A.D. 

Starscream, Rumble, Ramjet, Ravage, Hoist, Warpath and Spike arrive from the 
future (Earth Year 1985). They are sent back to the future by a mysterious 
wizard. (Note that in this episode "A Decepticon Raider in King Arthur's Court" 
the year that the time portal transported the Transformers to is clearly 
identified as 543 AD – However Starscream also states that it will be 1451 
years before they have to deal with Megatron again – 1451+543 = 1994!!! 
(Obviously this should have been 1984, the year when The Transformers awakened 
on Earth – either the writer goofed or Starscream has trouble with basic math!!)

Earth Year 1943 A.D.

An island in the Guadal Canal is one of the many battlefields during Earth's 
Second World War. The damaged remains of the war machines that would be rebuilt 
into the Combaticons are abandoned here. (Date and location given 
in "Starscream's Brigade") 

Earth Year 1944 A.D. 

"Sparkplug" Witwicky is born. (Assumes Sparkplug is 40 years old in the 
episode "More Than Meets the Eye Part 1" in 1984. Sparkplug's real first name 
is never revealed in the TV series… unless of course Sparkplug *IS* his birth 
name!!)

Earth Year 1969 A.D.

Carlie is born (According to the TF:Bible Carlie is one year older than Spike. 
Meaning she would be 16 at the time of her first appearance in 1985. She also 
states that she is a student at MIT. Meaning she must have graduated from high 
school the previous year – obviously Carlie skipped a few grades – not 
inconceivable considering the high level of technical knowledge she routinely 
demonstrates… Also note that Carlie's maiden name has never been revealed in 
the context of the TV series) 

Earth Year 1970 A.D.

Spike Witwicky is born (According to the Transformer's Bible, Spike is 14 
during the 1984 airing of "More than Meets the Eye")

(Season 1 of the TV series. 1984-1985)

Earth Year 1984 A.D. 

The Volcano that the Ark crashed into becomes active again. The explosion jolts 
Teletran I (The Ark's onboard computer), back online. The automatic repair 
system actives and revives the nearest Transformer (which happened to be 
Skywarp, a Decepticon). One of Teletran's "Sky-Spy" satellites scans the nearby 
area for a new vehicular form suitable to the new environment, which in 
Skywarp's case, is an F-15 fighter plane. Skywarp uses Teletran's repair system 
to revive and reformat Megatron and subsequently the other Decepticons as well. 

Megatron and his troops leave the Ark to formulate plans to acquire the energy 
resources of this new planet. Starscream fires a few "goodbye" shots at the Ark 
and inadvertently causes Teletran to revive Optimus Prime. Prime ensures that 
all his troops are revived and reformatted as Earth-type automobiles.

Megatron begins raiding nearby human power plants and oil refineries for the 
resources he needs to construct a replacement space cruiser. During a raid on 
an oil rig, the Autobots battle the Decepticons and rescue the humans working 
there, including "Sparkplug" Witwicky and his son, Spike. The two humans 
quickly become allies to the Autobots.

The Decepticons manage to complete their new space cruiser and launch. They 
leave the planet carrying enough energon cubes to dominate Cybertron. Optimus 
attempts to pursue the spacecraft but is blasted by one of the ships laser 
cannons. The Autobot Mirage however has stowed away on board the ship and 
sabotages the engine causing the ship to crash into the ocean, seemingly 
destroying all the Decepticons. 

The world governments agree to help Optimus Prime and the Autobots by supplying 
the energy resources they need to revitalize Cybertron. (However, unknown to 
all, most of the Decepticons had survived the crash)

The Autobots become aware the Decepticons were not destroyed and elect to stay 
on Earth to protect humanity. The Decepticons are using their downed spacecraft 
as an underwater base of operations.

Shockwave (who has been on Cybertron for all this time) contacts Megatron and 
they begin plans to construct a "Space Bridge" to Cybertron. During a battle, 
Megatron is inadvertently transported to Cybertron, later returns to Earth.

The Decepticons learn about the human experiments to generate antimatter. Chip 
Chase, (A young computer genius) was given the antimatter formula to prevent 
the Decepticons from getting it. The Deceptions kidnap Chip and extract the 
formula from his mind. Megatron attempts to use antimatter energon cubes to 
destroy the Autobots but the cubes are too unstable and Megatron narrowly 
avoids self-destruction.

Skyfire is found buried in the Arctic, where he crashed millions of years ago. 
Starscream recognizes his old friend and helps to reactivate him. Skyfire joins 
the Decepticons but later defects to the Autobots when he learns the nature of 
the Decepticon cause. Skyfire battles and defeats his former friend Starscream 
but Skyfire again crashes into the icy wastes of the Arctic and is lost.

The Autobots construct new transformers patterned after the prehistoric 
dinosaurs. The three new "Dinobots" are named Grimlock, Slag and Sludge. The 
simple minded robots go berserk and almost destroy the Autobot headquarters. 
Optimus Prime orders them deactivated, but Wheeljack later reactivates them 
after developing a way to upgrade their intelligence. Optimus allows the 
Dinobots to remain among the Autobots.

(Concerning the Dinobots: The Dinobots were created on Earth from scratch 
without the help of Vector Sigma, the mega-computer that gave the Transformers 
individual and sentient minds. 

It would seem that the most highly skilled Transformer technicians and 
engineers can duplicate the work of Vector Sigma – i.e. program sentient minds, 
albeit very crude ones by Vector Sigma's standards. Obviously it is preferable 
to actually go to Vector Sigma and download a relatively intelligent mind – as 
the Decepticons did after they constructed the Stunticons on Earth, and 
Autobots when they constructed the Aerialbots) 

Skyfire is recovered from the ice and is again reactivated.

Megatron manipulates the Dinobots into betraying and attacking Optimus Prime. 
The Autobots have created two additional Dinobots, Snarl and Swoop. The new 
Dinobots attempt to subdue the renegade Dinos and in the course of the battle 
Optimus saves Grimlock's life. The Dinobots are now unified and all of them 
remain with the Autobots, to be held in reserve as a special commando group. 

Dr Arkeville, allies himself with the Decepticons and shares his hypno-chip 
technology to enslave dozens of human subjects including Sparkplug. This is 
actually part of a larger plan by Megatron to teleport the planet Cybertron to 
Earth's orbit via a large-scale space bridge. The resulting gravitational and 
atmospheric chaos created by Cybertron's proximity to Earth would generate 
tremendous energy which Megatron planned to harvest for himself. Even though 
Megatron collected more than enough energy to fuel his conquest, the transport 
ship he was piloting was destroyed by the Autobots as he was in the outer Earth 
atmosphere en route to Cybertron. The explosion pushed the Transformers' home-
world out of Earth's orbit, ending the global devastation. Megatron is presumed 
dead.

Starscream immediately declares himself the new Decepticon leader. Starscream 
makes use of Dr Arkeville's exponential generator in an attempt to destroy 
Earth and collect the energy released from the resulting explosion. Dr. 
Arkeville attempts to stop Starscream but is severely injured – and rebuilt as 
cyborg. Megatron returns to lead the Decepticons. Megatron and Prime become 
temporary allies to thwart Starscream's plan. Megatron punishes Starscream for 
his treachery.

A group of Decepticons reach Earth and take on the form of robotic insects. The 
Insecticons ally themselves with the Decepticons but the two groups wind up 
fighting against one another. ("The Insecticon Syndrome" indicates that the Ark 
was not the only attempt by Cybertronian citizens to leave Cybertron and settle 
on other planets.)

The Constructicons arrive on Earth and are rebuilt by Megatron. Megatron 
challenges Optimus to a one-on-one duel with the stipulation that the loser and 
his army mush leave Earth forever. Optimus accepts but is defeated by Megatron 
(who has secretly integrated the powers of all the other Decepticons into his 
own weapon systems, making him almost unbeatable). Optimus prepares to honour 
the agreement as per Cybertronian law. The Autobots learn the details about how 
Megatron had defeated Optimus and realize that the results of the duel are not 
binding because Megatron had cheated. The Dinobots battle against the 
Constructicons (who merge into the super-robot Devastator) The Autobots join 
their Dinobot allies and defeat the Decepticons by driving them backwards into 
a river of lava.

Earth Year 1985 A.D.

(Season 2 begins 1985-1986)

The Decepticons have of course survived the lava and continue their plans of 
conquest…

Carlie, a teenage girl, becomes involved with the Autobots when the Decepticons 
attempt to steal Wheeljack's "Instant Immobilizer" device. Carlie meets Spike 
for the first time.

The "second wave" of Autobots and Decepticons appear. 

(This is a subject of debate. In the episode "Dinobot Island Pt 1" A large 
number of new Autobots and Decepticons suddenly appear with no explanation 
given. One theory is that these new Transformers were on Cybertron, continuing 
the war – until 1985 when they traveled to Earth to link up with the 
Transformers there. This is unlikely seeing as how in "Desertion of the 
Dinobots" all the Transformers new and old (except the Dinobots of course) were 
suffering from Cybertronium depletion at the exact same time – meaning they 
must have all left Cybertron at the exact same time. Which leaves one of two 
explanations – 1) The new Transformers left Cybertron at the same time as the 
Ark but in different spacecraft and spent the intervening 4 million years 
elsewhere in the galaxy until they contacted Optimus (or Megatron) and rejoined 
their comrades on Earth or 2)The new Transformers were on board a different 
section of the Ark that was still buried in the mountainside – they were freed 
and reactivated in 1985 after excavating these sections of the Ark)

The Dinobots sheer destructive powers coupled with their complete lack of 
finesse becomes a problem. Collateral damage caused by Dinobot clumsiness 
begins to rise. (Dinobot Island Pt 1)

An island is discovered in the Pacific Ocean. Powerglide and Bumble are sent to 
investigate the bizarre temporal readings detected. The island is home to 
living dinosaurs. The Dinobots are sent there so they can learn to better 
control their powers. The Island is discovered by the Decepticons who plan to 
use capture the temporal energy in energon cubes. The Decepticons force the 
Dinobots into a tar pit where they sink out of sight… 

Time portals begin to open across the globe, and the Autobots send teams to 
return the time-displaced barbarians, cowboys and pirates back to their 
respective time portals before they become trapped in the present. Optimus 
Prime leads a strike team to Dinobot Island and is waylaid by the Decepticons. 
The Dinobots escape from the tar pits and help drive the Decepticons away. The 
energon cubes are destroyed, restoring the island's energy balance.

Humans discover a crashed Decepticon Space Cruiser during an excavation dig. 
The Decepticons quickly arrive and find that "The Heart of Cybertron" is 
contained within. Megatron uses the device to exponentially increase his power. 
Perceptor, Brawn and Bumblebee are shrunk to microscopic size and are inserted 
into Megatron's body in an attempt disable the device from within. The plan is 
successful and the Heart of Cybertron is destroyed by Perceptor.

The Autobot Tracks becomes friends with a human would-be-car-thief named Raoul. 

The Decepticons use a human politician (named Shawn Berger) influence to help 
create the illusion that it is the Autobots are the real villains in the 
Transformer's civil war. Most of the humans are fooled and the Autobots are 
banished from Earth. Megatron uses shows his true colours after the Autobots 
have left and enslaves the people of Earth. But the Autobots return in time to 
defeat the Decepticons.

The Dinobots are nearly destroyed in terrible battle against the Decepticons. 
Tired of taking orders from the Autobots, they desert. Meanwhile, the Autobots 
and Decepticons find they are one and all suffering unexplained malfunctions. 
It is determined they are all suffering from a depletion of Cybertronium – a 
rare material found only on Cybertron. Only the Earth-built Dinobots are 
immune. The Dinobots are caught in the space bridge to Cybertron – and later 
declare that they do not intend to return. Spike and Carlie travel to Cybertron 
and find that the all the Dinobots except Swoop have been captured and 
brainwashed by Shockwave's Troops. Carlie deactivates Shockwave's brainwashing 
and the group escapes and returns to Earth with enough Cybertronium to repair 
the Autobots. Shockwave sends a second shipment of Cybertronium for Megatron 
and the other Decepticons.

Omega Supreme recollects his distant past and his grudge against his former 
allies, the Constructicons

Megatron sets a trap for Optimus Prime, informing him that Elita One (Optimus's 
former lover) is still alive. Megatron captures Optimus Prime, Elita rescues 
Prime but nearly dies as the result of using her Time-Stop ability. Optimus 
Prime takes her to the aging Alpha Trion who repairs Elita with parts donated 
by Optimus Prime – Optimus learns that Alpha Trion is his creator.

Megatron steals a number of Earth automobiles to create his own group of 
Decepticon cars to battle the Autobots on the road. The newly 
created "Stunticons" have no independent mental abilities. Megatron travels to 
Cybertron – in the hopes of locating Vector Sigma – the mega-computer which 
made all the transformers into sentient machines. Optimus Prime and a team of 
Autobots pursue them via Omega Supreme. Megatron steals the Key to Vector Sigma 
from Alpha Trion. After giving life to the Stunticons he returns to Earth. The 
Autobots arrive too late to stop the Decepticons. The Autobots reconstruct a 
group of shuttlecraft to resemble Earth-style jets intending to use them to 
battle the Decepticons in the air. But without the key, Vector Sigma cannot be 
activated. Alpha Trion, as a first-generation product of Vector Sigma, uses his 
own circuitry to reactivate Vector Sigma at the cost of his own life – as a 
result, the Aerialbots are born. Alpha Trion's life-essence has merged with 
Vector Sigma. Megatron learns that, while on Earth, the Key has the power to 
turn organic materials into metal. Omega Supreme is nearly destroyed upon 
returning to Earth. The Stunticons and Aerialbots battle it out – both of them 
displaying their ability to merge into super robots Menasor and Superion 
respectively. Omega Supreme recovers and helps defeat Menasor. The key to 
Vector Sigma is destroyed.

Tired of Starscream's repeated attempts to become the new Decepticon leader, 
Megatron banishes Starscream to a remote island in the Guadal Canal containing 
the mangled remains of World War II military vehicles. Starscream is able to 
reach the Decepticon Space Bridge and travels to Cybertron. He recovers the 
incarcerated personality components of several renegade Decepticons. He returns 
to the island and integrates the personalities with the abandoned war machines 
to create the Combaticons for use as his personal army. Starscream does not 
install energon absorbers in his troops, making them dependant on him for 
survival. He uses them in an attempt to destroy Megatron. The Combaticons 
combine into the super robot "Bruticus". Bruticus battles Devastator and 
Menasor and is defeated when his power is depleted. Starscream and the 
Combaticons are banished from Earth (The air date of this episode was 1986 but 
the caption of this episode stated that the episode occurred in 1985 – I 
consider what is seen on the screen as cannon therefore this episode occurs 
1985)

Earth Year 1986 A.D.

Starscream after months of drifting in space abandons the Combaticons on an 
asteroid. The Combaticons reach Cybertron and defeat Shockwave, tossing him 
into space. Shockwave and Starscream meet each other and form an uneasy 
alliance. Meanwhile on Earth, the Protectobots make their first appearance. The 
Combaticons enact a plan to drive Earth into the sun – which is foiled by an 
alliance between Autobots and the Decepticons. Bruticus is disabled. Megatron 
seemingly destroys the Combaticons but has secretly made plans to reprogram 
them as part of the Decepticon army. Starscream is allowed to return to the 
Decepticons.

The Autobot-Decepticon conflict continues for many years.…

Earth Year 1993 A.D.

Spike and Carlie are married (date is a wild guess as no hard info is available)

Earth Year 1995 A.D.

Daniel Witwicky, son of Spike and Carlie Witwicky is born (Assumes Daniel is 10 
years old at the beginning of Transformers: The Movie)

Earth Year 1995-2004 A.D.

The Decepticons leave Earth and conquer Cybertron – the last vestiges of 
Autobot resistance on Cybertron are forced to retreat or are killed.

Among those retreating from Cybertron are Ultra Magnus, Springer, Blurr, Kup, 
Arcee and Hotrod. They take on the form of more "futuristic" vehicles upon 
arriving on Earth.

The Autobots share their vast technical know-how with the people of Earth. 
Earth's technology level skyrockets practically overnight. The move was meant 
to help humanity defend itself from the Decepticons. The Earth Defence Command 
(EDC) is formally established. The Autobots also construct a number of space 
cruisers.

The Autobot City Metroplex is constructed on Earth. 

The two small moons orbiting Cybertron are occupied by the Autobots. (Since we 
have never seen these moons before now, it is possible that the Autobots may 
well have constructed them.)

Earth Year 2005 A.D.

Unicron appears after a long absence and begins consuming inhabited planets. 

Meanwhile, Megatron stages a massive attack on Autobot city. The Decepticons 
hijack an Autobot space cruiser, killing Ironhide, Ratchet, Brawn and Prowl in 
the process. The Decpticons then use Cruiser to slip through Autobot security 
and attack Autobot City.

The Autobots Wheeljack and Windcharger are killed in battle. Decepticon 
casualties include Thundercracker, Skywarp, Bombshell, Shrapnel and Kickback. 
Metroplex is severely damaged and his transformation cog is destroyed. Optimus 
Prime and Megatron battle one on one, resulting in both combatants being 
critically injured. The Decepticons are forced to retreat. Optimus Prime dies 
as the result of injuries sustained in the battle – shortly after passing the 
Autobot Matrix of Leadership to Ultra Magnus. Astrotrain transports the 
Decepticons back to Cybertron. During the trip, Starscream tosses Megatron as 
well as several near-dead Decepticons out into deep space. Except for Megatron, 
the wounded Decepticons die in space. Adrift, Megatron encounters Unicron. 
Unicron upgrades Megatron into Galvatron and also creates Cyclonus, Scourge and 
the Sweeps from the remains of the other Decepticons. Unicron forces Galvatron 
to capture the Matrix of Leadership. Starscream names himself the new 
Decepticon Leader but is quickly killed by Galvatron. Galvatron is officially 
declared leader of the Decepticons. Unicron consumes the moons around 
Cybertron. The Autobots Jazz, Cliffjumper and Bumblebee as well as the human 
Spike Witwicky (who were on these moons at the time) are presumed lost.

Ultra Magnus attempts to unlock the power of the Matrix but fails. Galvatron 
blasts Ultra Magnus to pieces and claims the Matrix for himself. Magnus is 
repaired by the Junkions. 

Hot Rod and Kup are captured by the Quintessons and are rescued by the Dinobots.

Galvatron tries to use the Matrix against Unicron but cannot unlock its powers. 
Galvatron is tortured for his efforts. Unicron's repeated use of mind-projected 
torture plays havoc on Galvatron's psyche. 

Unicron reaches Cybertron – and transforms into his humanoid form. His intent 
is to consume the planet. All the transformers combine forces to fight their 
common threat but Unicron is far too powerful. Some of the Autobots manage to 
enter Unicron's superstructure. Spike, Bumblebee, Jazz and Cliffjumper are 
rescued from Unicron's digestive system by Daniel. Hot Rod battles Galvatron 
and in the process, the Matrix reacts to Hot Rod's presence. Hot Rod activates 
the Matrix of Leadership and is transformed into Rodimus Prime. Rodimus defeats 
Galvatron by tossing him into deep space. 

Rodimus releases some of the energy contained in the matrix and destroys 
Unicron. 

Rodimus Prime officially becomes the new Autobot Commander.

In the following months, the leaderless Decepticons are routed from Cybertron. 
They retreat to the barren planet of Char.

(Season 3 of the TV series 1986-1987)

Earth Year 2006 A.D.

The First Annual Galactic Olympics are held – with the Autobots hosting the 
event. The Quintessons appear again kidnapping Ultra Magnus, Kup and Earth's 
Ambassador Spike Witwicky. 

Blurr and Wheelie make a special run to Metroplex, the Autobot City on Earth to 
deliver a replacement transformation cog – without which, Metroplex cannot 
transform.

Meanwhile Cyclonus and the Sweeps enter Unicron's lifeless remains (his head) 
hoping to locate Galvatron. They track Galvatron to the planet Throh and 
Galvatron resumes command of the Decepticons. 

The Quints plan to destroy both the Autobots AND the Decepticons. Magnus, Kup 
and Spike are rescued by Rodimus Prime and the other Autobots. The Quintessons 
destroy the planet Quintessa in the hopes of killing Rodimus Prime and the 
Matrix along with him.

Rodimus Prime uses the Matrix to learn the origin of the Transformers (and that 
the Quintessons are their creators.) 

Trypticon is created on Earth by Galvatron from the remains of a human city. 

Sky Lynx rescues Blurr and Wheelie from the Predacons and shuttles them to 
Earth…

Trypticon destroys the Ark along with Teletran I. 

Meanwhile the Decepticons have allied themselves with the Quints (Galvatron 
agrees to the alliance when the Quints mention the Decepticon Matrix)

Sky Lynx, Blurr and Wheelie arrive at Metroplex and install the cog. Metroplex 
transforms into his human form and defeats Trypticon. The Decepticon Blitzwing 
overhears from the Quints that the Decepticon Matrix was a lie and that the 
Quints intend to destroy both the Autobots and the Decepticons. When his 
warnings to Galvatron go unheeded, he warns Rodimus Prime under a flag of 
truce. Blitzwing is branded as a traitor by Galvatron.

The Quintessons make a last ditch effort to destroy the Transformers using an 
ancient override circuit deep within Cybertron's core. The circuit is activated 
and paralyzes all the Transformers everywhere in the galaxy. But it is quickly 
deactivated by the human Spike. The Quintessons are routed. The Decepticons 
retreat as well but are once again a force to be reckoned with. The Autobot-
Decepticon war is now resumed

Metroplex is now the Autobot's primary base of operations.

The Decepticons discover a planet called Paradron (which was on the other side 
of a dimensional warp gate) – a planet inhabited by Autobots who have sworn an 
oath of total pacifism. The Decepticons conquer the energon-rich planet with 
minimal resistance until a Paradron native called Sandstorm escapes and makes 
contact with the Autobots on Cybertron. The Autobots attempt to free the planet 
but realize the only way to prevent the Decepticons from controlling Paradron's 
vast energon resources is to destroy it. The displaced Paradron Autobots are 
taken back to live on Cybertron. Sandstorm joins the Autobots main force.

(In the episode 'Fight or Flee' the Paradron Autobots claim they left Cybertron 
during the 4th Cybertronian War – which is inconsistent with the chain of 
events described in 'The Five Faces of Darkness' which describes only 3 
Cybertronian Wars (the 3rd being the one that started 9 million years ago and 
resumed in 1984) It may simply be an oversight by the writing staff – in which 
case, the actual point in Cybertronian history when the Paradron's left 
Cybertron is cast into doubt...) 

The Decepticon Octane, on the run from Galvatron, seeks asylum in the Autobot 
ranks and receives help from the Autobot Sandstorm. Later Octane stumbles into 
the Decepticon Crypt where he meets Starscream's ghost. Starscream apparently 
now has the ability to possess other Transformers although he has no physical 
form of his own.

Later Starscream locates Unicron's head in orbit around Cybertron and makes a 
deal with Unicron – Starscream will help Unicron take over Cybertron for use as 
his new body and Unicron will create a new body for Starscream to inhabit. 
After Starscream completes the tasks necessary to attach Unicron to the planet, 
Unicron fulfils his side of the bargain and restores Starscream's physical 
form. Starscream however double-crosses Unicron and leaves him to be 
deactivated by the Autobots. Starscream was last seen tumbling aimlessly 
through deep space...

Grimlock is given a huge boost to his intelligence after his brain exposed to 
mysterious energy particles. During this time he single-handedly creates the 
Technobots to counter the Terrorcons. He also uploads his massive intelligence 
into the Technobot's combined form- Computron. The transfer leaves Grimlock at 
his normal level of intelligence.

Primacron (the creator of Unicron) has created an even more powerful engine of 
destruction: Tornatron. This new creature composed of pure energy. The creature 
is capable of draining the energy of machines and organic life forms alike. The 
creature runs roughshod across the Galaxy draining the life energy out of 
dozens of worlds including Cybertron.

An assistant scientist believes that Primacron's latest creation must be 
stopped at all costs. He summons the "primitive" Transformers (those that take 
on the forms of beasts and dinosaurs etc..) to him and explains that only their 
animal instincts hold the key to defeating Primacron. One by one all of 
the "Primitives" are defeated until only Grimlock remains. Primacron on the 
verge of losing control of his creation tries every complicated failsafe and 
backup override system at his disposal until Grimlock suggests Primacron simply 
throw the system into reverse. The threat destroyed and the Transformers life 
energy restored, Grimlock trashes Primacron's lab.

The Autobots discover a mausoleum in space which houses the remains of Autobots 
who were killed in battle. Optimus Prime is found here, and is apparently 
alive. Rodimus returns the Matrix to Optimus and reverts back into Hot Rod. But 
Optimus is only being animated by the Quintessons who are planning to use him 
in a ploy to destroy the Autobots. Prime is directed into leading the entire 
Autobot army into a trap but regains his free will long enough to return the 
Matrix to Hot Rod and pilot his starship in a suicide run into the Quintesson 
booby trap – saving his fellow Autobots. (It is revealed in "The Return of 
Optimus Prime part 1" That a team of Earth scientists were in the area at this 
time and recovered Optimus's damaged body from the ship mere moments before 
impact...) 

Earth Year 2007 A.D.

The Scientists who recovered Optimus Prime's remains aboard his star-ship 
months ago also discover alien spores. The spores create uncontrollable hatred 
and hostility when exposed to living beings or living machines (dubbed "The 
Hate Plague"). When Dr. Marcus's daughter is crippled in a Decepticon attack he 
blames all the Transformers and spreads the hate plague to them. The Plague 
grows out of control infecting every almost every human and Transformer on the 
planet. Sky Lynx captures a Quintesson and coerces him into reviving Optimus 
Prime. Bumblebee is badly damaged and is reconstructed as "Goldbug". Optimus 
makes use of a special alloy to protect him from the hate plague. He recovers 
the matrix from the infected Rodimus Prime. 

Optimus released the energy stored in the Matrix to completely eradicate the 
hate-plague. The Matrix's energy is completely expended but Optimus Prime 
states it is now their job to fill it again.

Later, on Cybertron, it is theorized by an Autobot named Brainstorm the 
Transformers would be much more efficient with human pilots to aid them. 

Meanwhile Galvatron stages an attack on Cybertron – gaining access to the 
Plasma chamber at the core of Cybertron. When the chamber is opened, the 
Decepticon strike force (along with a number of Autobots) are transported to 
the planet Nebulous where they meet up with the warring factions of the 
planet's native humanoid race, the Nebulons. The Autobots side with the "good" 
Nebulons against the Decepticons and the "evil" Nebulons.

The good Nebulons make use of the heads of several Autobots to create powered 
armour suits which can transform back into heads and attach to their Autobot 
partners. (I'm not making this up) Daniel (who was wounded during transport) 
bonds with Arcee in order to save his life. This technology is 
dubbed "Headmaster" technology (you have my permission to groan now). The 
Decepticons duplicate this technology with the help of the evil Nebulons and 
also create "Targetmaster" technology (where the Nebulon power armour 
transforms into a gun instead of the robot's head). This Targetmaster concept 
is in turn duplicated by the remaining Autobots. 

The evil Nebulons convert hive city into the fortress "Scorponok". 

The good Nebulons convert their own city into "Fortress Maximus". 

Meanwhile on Cybertron, Galvatron enacts a plan to move Cybertron close to 
Earth's sun and use the energy from the Plasma Chamber to cause Earth's sun to 
go supernova. Galvatron plans to collect the energy from the resulting 
explosion. The Autobots and the Nebulons foil the plan by siphoning off the 
excess solar back into Cybertron itself. The absorbed solar power completely re-
energizes Cybertron. The Second Golden Age of Cybertron begins. 

Beast Wars cartoon continuity
 
300 years after the end of the Great War but just before the Beast Wars, the 
Predacon crimelord Cryotek engineered the theft of the Golden Disk. He put his 
star pupil, Megatron, in charge of the actual operation. 

Megatron and Dinobot infiltrated the Vector Sigma chamber and stole from it the 
Golden Disk.

Secretly, Cryotek set his protégé up by alerting the Maximals, with the intent 
that a more loyal agent would deliver the disk to him while Megatron took the 
fall. Unfortunately for Cryotek, Megatron beat him to the treacherous punch, as 
the package Cryotek received only contained a Maximal homing beacon. While 
Maximal forces converged on Cryotek, Megatron and his cohorts escaped with the 
disk in the Darksyde. Theft of the Golden Disk 
 
But Cryotek was not the only Predacon string-puller: The Decepticon Divebomb 
had also been somehow involved in the affair, ensuring that the Darksyde was 
available while everyone "played their part" for the "Decepticon dream". As 
Megatron fled, Divebomb ordered Laserbeak and Buzzsaw to covertly safeguard the 
Darksyde. 
 
This would prove a wise decision, as the Maximal Imperium sent the Axalon in 
pursuit. Just out of Cybertronian orbit, the two bird-bots attacked the Axalon 
in a ship of their own. The battle was going against the Maximals until 
Tigatron and Airazor came to their rescue. The Decepticon ship was destroyed, 
but Tigatron and Airazor were left in critical condition. Rhinox saved them by 
transferring their sparks to blank protoforms at the expense of much or all of 
their "core mainframes". Dawn of Future's Past 

The ships crashing on a planet that all parties believed to be an unknown 
world, the truth that they had reached Megatron's original intended destination 
of prehistoric Earth would not come to light for some time. 
 
One source of confusion was the overabundant energon, so plentiful that its 
ubiquitous radiation would overload the Transformers' systems within minutes if 
they left their ships. They adopted semi-organic beast modes to shield 
themselves, though their robot modes were still vulnerable. Primal feared that 
Megatron would use the energon to restart the Great War on Cybertron, so he 
immediately prepped his small crew to fight against the comparably-sized 
Predacon team. 

One might say that the first shot of the Beast Wars was fired by Cheetor, who 
spotted Waspinator (in insect mode, no less) and immediately attacked him. 
Beast Wars (Part 1) This led to a series of territorial skirmishes culminating 
in the detonation of an energon-infused mountain. Primal, realizing that a long 
fight lay ahead, made his epic pronouncement that their battles would be known 
as the "Beast Wars". Beast Wars (Part 2) 
 
As they explored their world, they found powerful artifacts of a mysterious 
alien race, including another Golden Disk. These finds tended to lead to 
battles as Megatron tried to claim the artifacts as weapons; however, the only 
lasting effect was to alert the aliens to the Transformers' presence. Deciding 
that their experiment on the planet had been contaminated, the aliens activated 
one of its two moons. Other Voices, Part 1 The satellite turned into a weapon 
that ignited most of the energon deposits around the world. The planet-buster 
was only stopped when Primal sacrificed his life to blow it up. Other Voices, 
Part 2 (Primal would soon be resurrected, though, in the start of a continuing 
trend for him.) Coming of the Fuzors (Part 2) 
 
Realizing just how powerful the aliens were, Megatron schemed all the more 
intently on hijacking their technology. Meanwhile, more combatants had been 
joining the fray as protoform-bearing stasis pods fell to Earth, an after-
effect of the original space battle. And, in the absence of overwhelming 
energon (and a moon), the Beast Warriors slowly began to realize that they were 
on prehistoric Earth after all. This turned the battle away from territorial 
squabbles and toward matters of timeline-alteration. With information from the 
Golden Disk he had stolen, Megatron was able to threaten both the developing 
human race and the comatose, Ark-bound Autobots. Code of Hero 
 
Back on the Cybertron of their home-time, the Tripredacus Council became aware 
of Megatron's location, and they sent their Decepticon-turned-Predacon agent 
Ravage to retrieve the rogue. The Agenda (Part 1) He nearly succeeded, but he 
ended up switching sides when Megatron revealed the truth about the Golden 
Disk: the original Megatron had left a message on the disk, included access 
codes to the Ark, and had instructed the descendants of the Decepticons to 
travel through time to locate the Ark and kill Optimus Prime while he was still 
in stasis lock. The Agenda (Part 2) Ravage would end up giving his life while 
aiding Megatron. The Agenda (Part III) And Megatron himself almost destroyed 
Optimus Prime, which caused a timestorm, but the Maximals were able to repair 
the Autobot and preserve the status quo. Optimal Situation 
-
After Ravage's failure, the Tripredacus Council sent another agent, Magmatron, 
to perform the same task. Unlike Ravage, he took a team with him, and also 
unlike Ravage, they were all chronally displaced to be just out of sync with 
the core Beast Warriors. While the new arrivals could see them, they couldn't 
see the new arrivals. And one could even walk right through the other. Thus, 
the core Beast Warriors were completely unaware when Magmatron activated dozens 
of the downed stasis pods to create a chronally-displaced army. But one of his 
soldiers, Razorbeast, was a spy who was able to turn many of the protoforms to 
Maximals. Foreseeing the scope of the impending battles, Magmatron declared the 
start of his own "Beast Wars". The Gathering #1 

As both groups tracked down their widespread, newly-activated allies, Magmatron 
realized he needed assistance to fulfill his mission. He was able to recover 
Ravage's spark from his corpse, and he gave the Decepticon new life in a blank 
protoform. While Ravage led the main Predacon force against Razorbeast and the 
Maximals, Magmatron captured Megatron. The Gathering #3 To do so, he had to 
undo his chronal displacement, and this would be his downfall. While Magmatron 
was preparing the unconscious Megatron for transwarp delivery to Cybertron, 
Razorbeast stole his chronal-phase armband and used it to slip in and out of 
sync as he attacked the Predacon. Megatron was freed, and Magmatron was thrown 
into his own transwarp device, which catapulted him out of normal space 
entirely. The Gathering #4 
 
But, as Prowl would note, this did not end their particular Beast Wars. 
Ravage's Predacons continued to harry Razorbeast's Maximals, attempting to 
recover the stolen chronal-phase facilitators. Meanwhile, on the Cybertron of 
their home-time, a drug-like substance called "Angolmois" was spreading amongst 
the population. Magmatron, floating through chronospace, could see that 
Angolmois was a tool for the resurrection of Unicron, and Cybertron was almost 
inevitably doomed. The Ascending #1 But even trapped outside of space-time, he 
was able to deliver messages to Lio Convoy on Cybertron and Ravage on Earth, 
bringing the various teams together against their common enemy. 

Lio Convoy and his Pack journeyed to prehistoric Earth to retrieve the 
combatants of the new Beast Wars, but they were ambushed by Angolmois-infused 
servants of Unicron. The Ascending #2 The Pack only managed to bring a handful 
of Beast Warriors back to Cybertron—just in time to fight Shokaract, who was 
the conduit of Angolmois energy. They were able to defeat him with a chronal-
phase facilitator, shunting him into chronospace with Magmatron. There, 
Magmatron showed him how Unicron would use him as a vessel for his return, 
destroying the hapless Shokaract in the process. In horror, Shokaract tore the 
Anti-Matrix from his own chest, self-destructing and sending Magmatron back to 
normal space. 

With the help of a retrovirus, the Maximals set about undoing the effects of 
Angolmois across the planet. 
-
At the same time Optimus Primal and Megatron are having their last encounter 
with the aliens in the form of Tigerhawk, an emissary created from two 
kidnapped Maximals. He identified the aliens as the "Vok" and tried to destroy 
Megatron for his temporal interference. But despite his vast power, he was 
subdued by Tarantulas, who extracted the Vok essence from him. This ended 
explosively, with Tarantulas apparently destroyed and Tigerhawk left a mere 
Maximal again. Other Victories But little was learned about him before he 
perished when Megatron raised the Nemesis from the ocean floor and rained havoc 
upon Maximal and Predacon alike. Nemesis Part 1 In defending the Ark, the 
Maximals managed to bring the Nemesis down and capture Megatron, whose troops 
had either deserted or been destroyed. As the Maximals blasted off in an 
Autobot shuttle bound for the Cybertron of the future, Primal declared, "The 
Beast Wars are over... for now." Nemesis Part 2 

With the capture of Megatron and and Magmatron and the violence and threat of 
the Predacons abated for a time the Maximal elders are able to take control of 
Cybertron once again sending any criminals into hiding. Decepticons are rounded 
up as well as any violent Autobots  who could not put the past behind them and 
adaot to the new peaceful way of life. The Tripredacus Council flees 
underground, their membership still largely unknown. 

The Maximal council rules Cybertron, but unknown to many corruption begins to 
set in. Arguments quickly ensue as to what to do with all the prisoners. Some 
argue for reprogramming, some argue for permanent incarceration, and there is 
even a small voice for extermination. In the end most of the prisoners are 
exiled from Cybertron and put on board the Mephelis with the intention of never 
being seen again. 

Neo Beast Wars: New Age

It would seem that although the Maximals were successful in cleaning up 
the ‘spill’ of Angolmois energon with the retrovirus, enough of it leaked 
through the open chrono gate leading back to ancient Earth, enough of it to 
attract the attention of the Unicron of that time. Realizing that the energon 
present on Earth was too powerful for him to absorb right away Unicron decided 
to keep a watchful eye on the planet until the crystals were ripe for his 
taking. With the Cybertronians out of his way, he went pleased with himself. He 
left several sleeping Minions on the moon. 

Yet before the Minions could awake, there came the wreckage of the Mephilis, a 
slaver ship. The crash on Earth caused the deaths of most of the slave drivers, 
and those who survived were met with the wrathful vengeance of the now free 
slaves. The slaves were from all known transformer factions and builds, a few 
even dating back to the era of the Great Wars. They all formed a loose society, 
agreeing that slavery was to be banned from their hearts, and punishable by 
death.

Fifteen years passed, and the Mephilis survivors were then joined by the crews 
of rescue ships that had finally managed to track them down. Contact was re-
established with Cybertron, and colons started arriving, forming high-tech 
cities that were designed to ensure a central government on the planet. 
Industry and economy were bustling, and everybody was happy.

Or rather, they would have been. The Minions awoke and soon, a sort of Cold War 
was raging between the Unicronians and the Cybertronians, but also between the 
Cybertronians themselves. Old hatred died hard, and in this case, they even 
resurrected. The Maximals and Predacons emerged from the colonies and mistrust 
became rampant. Yet, some felt that it was their duties to make sure the 
Minions were being watched. Some, no matter their personal allegiance, 
collaborated and formed the Watchers, keeping the Unicronians in check while 
others were embarking on a power trip.



